<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">

<!--
  Topic Type  : Task
  Product     : InsurePortal — Customer Portal
  Version     : 3.2
  Author      : Dinesh Kumar M
  Created     : 2026-07-15
  Modified    : 2026-07-15
  Status      : Draft
  Description : Step-by-step procedure for filing a workers' compensation claim
                through the InsurePortal Customer Portal.
-->

<task id="file_a_claim" xml:lang="en-US">

  <title>How to File a Claim</title>

  <shortdesc>
    File a new insurance claim through the InsurePortal Customer Portal by providing
    incident details, injured worker information, and supporting documentation.
  </shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <prodinfo>
        <prodname>InsurePortal</prodname>
        <vrmlist>
          <vrm version="3" release="2" modification="0"/>
        </vrmlist>
      </prodinfo>
      <category>Claims Management</category>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>file a claim</keyword>
        <keyword>new claim</keyword>
        <keyword>FNOL</keyword>
        <keyword>first notice of loss</keyword>
        <keyword>workers compensation</keyword>
        <keyword>incident report</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
    <resourceid id="file_a_claim_task"/>
  </prolog>

  <taskbody>

    <!-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════
         CONTEXT
         Explains when/why the user performs this task
    ════════════════════════════════════════════════ -->
    <context>
      <p>
        Use this procedure when a workplace injury or incident has occurred and you need
        to submit a First Notice of Loss (FNOL) to initiate the claims process. Filing
        promptly ensures that the claim is registered, assigned to a handler, and
        processed within the required regulatory timeframe.
      </p>
      <p>
        Claims filed through the portal are automatically linked to the relevant policy
        and routed to the assigned claims handler within 24 hours of submission.
      </p>
    </context>

    <!-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════
         PREREQUISITES
         Conditions that must be true before starting
    ════════════════════════════════════════════════ -->
    <prereq>
      <p>Before you begin, ensure the following:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>You are logged in to the InsurePortal Customer Portal.</li>
        <li>You have an active policy number for the employer associated with the incident.</li>
        <li>You have the date of injury and basic details of the incident.</li>
        <li>
          Supporting documents are available (optional at submission but recommended):
          <ul>
            <li>Medical certificate or doctor's report</li>
            <li>Incident or accident report</li>
            <li>Witness statements (if applicable)</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </prereq>

    <!-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════
         STEPS
         The numbered procedure
    ════════════════════════════════════════════════ -->
    <steps>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          From the dashboard, click <uicontrol>Quick Launch</uicontrol> and select
          <uicontrol>File a Claim</uicontrol>.
        </cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            Alternatively, navigate to <menucascade>
              <uicontrol>Explore</uicontrol>
              <uicontrol>Policies</uicontrol>
            </menucascade>, select the relevant policy, and click
            <uicontrol>File First Report of Injury</uicontrol> from the policy actions bar.
          </p>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          On the <uicontrol>Policy Information</uicontrol> screen (Step 1 of 6),
          enter the <uicontrol>Policy Number</uicontrol> and select the
          <uicontrol>Date of Injury</uicontrol> using the date picker.
        </cmd>
        <info>
          <note type="tip">
            The policy number is printed on the policy certificate and in the
            <uicontrol>My Policies</uicontrol> section of the portal dashboard.
          </note>
        </info>
        <stepresult>
          The system validates the policy number and confirms the employer name
          associated with the policy.
        </stepresult>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          Click <uicontrol>Continue</uicontrol> to proceed to the
          <uicontrol>Incident Details</uicontrol> screen (Step 2 of 6).
        </cmd>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          Enter the incident details:
        </cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Select the <uicontrol>Time of Injury</uicontrol> from the time picker.
            </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Select the <uicontrol>Jurisdiction of Loss</uicontrol> from the dropdown list.
            </cmd>
            <info>
              <p>
                The jurisdiction is typically the state or region where the incident occurred,
                not where the employer is based.
              </p>
            </info>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Enter a brief description of the incident in the
              <uicontrol>Incident Description</uicontrol> field.
            </cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
        <stepresult>
          The form validates the jurisdiction selection and enables the
          <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> button.
        </stepresult>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          Click <uicontrol>Next</uicontrol> and enter the injured worker's details on the
          <uicontrol>Injured Worker</uicontrol> screen (Step 3 of 6):
        </cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Enter the worker's <uicontrol>First Name</uicontrol> and <uicontrol>Last Name</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>Enter the worker's <uicontrol>Date of Birth</uicontrol>.</cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Enter the worker's <uicontrol>Social Security Number</uicontrol> (masked on screen).
            </cmd>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          Complete the <uicontrol>Contact Information</uicontrol> screen (Step 4 of 6)
          by entering the reporting person's name, phone number, and email address.
        </cmd>
        <info>
          <note type="note">
            Contact information is used by the claims handler to follow up if
            additional details are required. This does not have to be the injured worker.
          </note>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          On the <uicontrol>Injury Details</uicontrol> screen (Step 5 of 6), provide
          the nature of the injury:
        </cmd>
        <substeps>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Select the <uicontrol>Nature of Injury</uicontrol> from the dropdown
              (for example, Fracture, Laceration, Burn).
            </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Select the <uicontrol>Part of Body Affected</uicontrol>.
            </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Select the <uicontrol>Cause of Injury</uicontrol>
              (for example, Fall from height, Machinery, Repetitive motion).
            </cmd>
          </substep>
          <substep>
            <cmd>
              Attach any supporting documents by clicking
              <uicontrol>Upload Document</uicontrol> and selecting the relevant files.
            </cmd>
            <info>
              <note type="tip">
                Supported file formats: PDF, JPG, PNG, DOCX. Maximum file size: 10 MB per file.
                You can attach up to 5 documents.
              </note>
            </info>
          </substep>
        </substeps>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          On the <uicontrol>Review and Submit</uicontrol> screen (Step 6 of 6),
          review all entered information carefully.
        </cmd>
        <info>
          <p>
            To edit any section, click the <uicontrol>Edit</uicontrol> link next to
            the relevant section heading. You will be taken back to that step without
            losing data from other steps.
          </p>
          <note type="important">
            Once submitted, the claim cannot be cancelled through the portal.
            Contact your claims handler if a submitted claim needs to be withdrawn.
          </note>
        </info>
      </step>

      <step>
        <cmd>
          Click <uicontrol>Submit Claim</uicontrol> to file the claim.
        </cmd>
        <stepresult>
          <p>
            A confirmation screen displays the assigned <uicontrol>Claim Number</uicontrol>
            and the name of the <uicontrol>Claims Handler</uicontrol>. A confirmation email
            is sent to the contact email address provided in Step 4.
          </p>
        </stepresult>
      </step>

    </steps>

    <!-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════
         RESULT
         What the user has accomplished
    ════════════════════════════════════════════════ -->
    <result>
      <p>
        The claim is filed and assigned a unique claim number. It is automatically linked
        to the associated policy and routed to a claims handler. You can track the claim
        status at any time by navigating to <menucascade>
          <uicontrol>Explore</uicontrol>
          <uicontrol>Claims</uicontrol>
        </menucascade> and selecting the claim number.
      </p>
    </result>

    <!-- ═══════════════════════════════════════════
         POSTREQUISITES
         What the user should do after this task
    ════════════════════════════════════════════════ -->
    <postreq>
      <p>After filing the claim, consider completing the following actions:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <xref href="track_claim_status.dita">Track the claim status</xref> to monitor
          progress and respond to any handler requests.
        </li>
        <li>
          Upload additional supporting documents at any time from the
          <uicontrol>Documents</uicontrol> tab within the claim details view.
        </li>
        <li>
          Contact your assigned claims handler directly using the contact details
          shown on the claim confirmation screen.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </postreq>

  </taskbody>

</task>
